Next.js quick start guide for manual setup (#12663)
getsentry/sentry-docs: docs/platforms/javascript/guides/nextjs/manual-setup.mdx

---
title: "Quick Start: Manual Setup"
sidebar_order: 1
description: "Learn how to manually set up and configure Sentry in your Next.js application, capture your first errors, and view them in Sentry."
---

## Prerequisites

- A Sentry [account](https://sentry.io/signup/) and [project](https://docs.sentry.io/product/projects/)

> - Be logged in to your Sentry account to have your project's data pre-filled (recommended)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

I'm not sure I see this as a pre-requisite. It seems unlikely that a user with a Sentry account would be logged out.

Author: Good point, let's remove it. 
The guide also displays alerts if the user is not logged in, informing them about the pre-fill feature.

---
title: "Manual Setup"
sidebar_order: 1
description: "Learn how to manually set up Sentry in your Next.js app and capture your first errors."
---

<Alert type="info">

>   For the fastest setup, we recommend using the [wizard

Author: Ideally, the user should take the same steps in this guide as the Installation Wizard. This means that the result is the same, and the user has no advantage or disadvantage if they prefer one guide to the other. 
If this guide should have more content than the wizard guide at some point, then it makes sense to include the addition you suggested.

---
title: Manual Setup
title: "Manual Setup"
sidebar_order: 1
description: "Learn how to set up the SDK manually."
description: "Learn how to manually set up and configure Sentry in your Next.js application, capture your first errors, and view them in Sentry."
---

> If you can't (or prefer not to) run the [automatic setup](/platforms/javascript/guides/nextjs/#install), you can follow the instructions below to configure your application.

Author: Good point! I added this info back at the top in an info alert

> - Your application up and running

Reviewer 2: l: since we're gonna use this in a lot of places we could move it into an `<Include ... `

Author: 👍 let me create a separate PR for this (it probably also makes sense to already use this `Include` in the wizard guide)

  org: "___ORG_SLUG___",
  project: "___PROJECT_SLUG___",

  // Only print logs for uploading source maps in CI
  // Set to `true` to suppress logs
  silent: !process.env.CI,

  // Automatically tree-shake Sentry logger statements to reduce bundle size
  disableLogger: true,
});
```

### Initialize Sentry Client-Side and Server-Side SDKs

Create three files in your application's root directory: `sentry.client.config.(js|ts)`, `sentry.server.config.(js|ts)` and `sentry.edge.config.(js|ts)`. Add the following initialization code into each respective file:

<Alert level="info" title="Note">
  These files run in different environments (browser, server, edge) and are
  slightly different, so copy them carefully.
</Alert>

> ```javascript {tabTitle:Client} {filename:sentry.client.config.(js|ts)} {"onboardingOptions": {"performance": "7-13", "session-replay": "5-6, 14-20"}}

Reviewer 2: The code snippet looks a bit strange when disabling everything imo we can just remove the `// ...`

  org: "___ORG_SLUG___",
  project: "___PROJECT_SLUG___",

  // Only print logs for uploading source maps in CI
  // Set to `false` to surpress logs
  silent: !process.env.CI,

  // Route browser requests to Sentry through a Next.js rewrite to circumvent ad-blockers.
  // This can increase your server load as well as your hosting bill.
  // Note: Check that the configured route will not match with your Next.js middleware, otherwise reporting of client-side errors will fail.

>   tunnelRoute: "/monitoring",

Author: If tunneling is something we need to explain in more detail, it makes sense to deal with it in a separate section.
So I've added `## Step 5: Avoid Ad Blockers With Tunneling (Optional)` -- please check if this looks okay to you content-wise

  // Automatically tree-shake Sentry logger statements to reduce bundle size
  disableLogger: true,
});
```

<Expandable level="info" title="Avoid ad blockers with tunneling">
  You might notice that ad blockers sometimes block Sentry events, which you can
  circumvent using tunneling. Setting the `tunnelRoute` option will add an API
  endpoint to your application that is used to forward Sentry events to the
  Sentry servers.
</Expandable>

### Initialize Sentry Client-Side and Server-Side SDKs

Create three files in the root directory of your Next.js application: `sentry.client.config.js`, `sentry.server.config.js` and `sentry.edge.config.js`. In these files, add your initialization code for the client-side SDK and server-side SDK, respectively. We've included some examples below.

<Alert level="info" title="Note">
  There are slight differences between these files since they run in different
  places (browser, server, edge), so copy them carefully!
</Alert>

> ```javascript {tabTitle:Client} {filename:sentry.client.config.(js|ts)} {"onboardingOptions": {"performance": "8-13", "session-replay": "5-6, 15-20"}}

Reviewer 3: Just fyi this looks slightly odd right now:

![Screenshot 2025-02-12 at 10 01 45](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/51824080-2ae5-4877-a140-16cc52c8280a)

Author: Thanks! There should now only be 1 empty line max

}
```

Make sure that the `import` statements point to your newly created `sentry.server.config.(js|ts)` and `sentry.edge.config.(js|ts)` files.

## Report React Component Render Errors
## Step 3: Capture React Render Errors

> To capture React render errors you need to add Error components for the App Router and the Pages Router respectively.

Reviewer 3: This is giga-important so I would not remove this.

Author: 👍 restored the original sentence

}
```

> ### Nested React Server Component Errors

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Nested React Server Component Errors
```

}
```

> ### Errors from Nested React Server Components

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Errors From Nested React Server Components
```

}
```

<Alert type="info" title="Note">
  You can also add Error components for the Pages Router, which you can learn
  more about here (LINK!).

> </Alert>

Reviewer 3: Pages router is still too ubiquitous for us to "hide away" that section.

Author: I added the section about Pages Router back in.

However, we don't have that in the installation wizard(?) or the wizard guide.
Does it make sense to add this as an optional step to the wizard guide? 

(I also just realized that we didn't include the “global-error.jsx” in the list of things the wizard changes/creates in the user application. So I need to add this)

Reviewer 3: We definitely have it in the CLI wizard but not the getting started docs it seems like. We should probably add it. Thinking about it some more about it, I less and less like it that we include in the docs what the CLI wizard did or will do. The CLI wizard should be self-explanatory.

Author: That's why we put it in an expandable, so anybody who doesn't care about that can ignore it, and anybody else can have a look. I think it is a thoughtful service to users to offer this list

Do I need a custom next.js error page in my project before I run the wizard to have it add `captureUnderscoreErrorException`? I didn't do that, and maybe that's why I can't find that in my project.

export const onRequestError = Sentry.captureRequestError;
```

> ## Step 4: Add readable Stack Traces With Source Maps (optional)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 4: Step 4: Add Readable Stack Traces With Source Maps (Optional)
```

Update `withSentryConfig` in your `next.config.js` or `next.config.mjs` file with the following additions:

```javascript {tabTitle:ESM} {filename:next.config.mjs}
export default withSentryConfig(nextConfig, {
  // Pass the auth token
  authToken: process.env.SENTRY_AUTH_TOKEN,
  // Hides source maps from generated client bundles
  hideSourceMaps: true,
  // Upload a larger set of source maps for prettier stack traces (increases build time)
  widenClientFileUpload: true,
});
```

```javascript {tabTitle:CJS} {filename:next.config.js}
module.exports = withSentryConfig(nextConfig, {
  // Pass the auth token
  authToken: process.env.SENTRY_AUTH_TOKEN,
  // Hides source maps from generated client bundles
  hideSourceMaps: true,
  // Upload a larger set of source maps for prettier stack traces (increases build time)
  widenClientFileUpload: true,
});
```

Alternatively, you can set the `SENTRY_AUTH_TOKEN` environment variable in your `.env` file:

```sh {filename:.env}
SENTRY_AUTH_TOKEN=___ORG_AUTH_TOKEN___
```

<Alert level="warning" title="Important">

Make sure to keep your auth token secret and don't commit it to version control.

</Alert>

> ## Step 5: Instrumentation of Vercel Cron Jobs (optional)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 5: Instrumentation of Vercel Cron Jobs (Optional)
```

If you have configured [Vercel Cron Jobs](https://vercel.com/docs/cron-jobs) you can set the `automaticVercelMonitors` option to automatically create [Cron Monitors](/product/crons/) in Sentry.

```javascript {tabTitle:ESM} {filename:next.config.mjs}
export default withSentryConfig(nextConfig, {
  automaticVercelMonitors: true,
});
```

```javascript {tabTitle:CJS} {filename:next.config.js}
module.exports = withSentryConfig(nextConfig, {
  automaticVercelMonitors: true,
});
```

<Alert>

Automatic instrumentation of Vercel cron jobs currently only works for the Pages Router. App Router route handlers are not yet supported.

</Alert>

## Step 6: Capture React Component Names (optional)

> You can capture the names of React components in your application, so that you can, for example, see the name of a component that a user clicked on in different Sentry features, like Session Replay and Performance page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can capture the names of React components in your application, so that you can, for example, see the name of a component that a user clicked on in different Sentry features, like Session Replay and the Performance page.
```

> Update `withSentryConfig` in your `next.config.js` or `next.config.mjs` with the following addition to capture component names:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Update `withSentryConfig` in your `next.config.js` or `next.config.mjs` with the following option to capture component names:
```

```javascript {tabTitle:CJS} {filename:next.config.js}
module.exports = withSentryConfig(nextConfig, {
  reactComponentAnnotation: {
    enabled: true,
  },
});
```

## Step 7: Verify

<Expandable level="warning" title="Are you developing with Turbopack?">

The Sentry SDK doesn't fully support `next dev --turbo` as Turbopack is still under development. This means that the Sentry SDK will not capture any data from your frontend. Other than that, your dev server should be fully operational.

Check the latest information on [Sentry's support for Turbopack on GitHub](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-javascript/issues/8105).

</Expandable>

Let's test your setup and confirm that Sentry is working properly and sending data to your Sentry project.

### Issues

To test if Sentry captures errors and creates issues for them in your Sentry project, add a test button to one of your existing pages or create a new one:

```javascript
<button
  type="button"
  onClick={() => {
    throw new Error("Sentry Test Error");
  }}
>
  Break the world
</button>
```

<OnboardingOption optionId="performance" hideForThisOption>
  Open the page with your test button in it in your browser. For most Next.js

>   applications, this will be at localhost. Clicking the button triggers a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  applications, this will be at localhost. Click the button to```

>   applications, this will be at localhost. Clicking the button triggers a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  applications, this will be at localhost. Click the button to trigger a
```

  frontend error.
</OnboardingOption>

<OnboardingOption optionId="performance">
### Tracing

To see whether Sentry tracing is working, create a test route that throws an error:

```javascript
import { NextResponse } from "next/server";
export const dynamic = "force-dynamic";

// A faulty API route to test Sentry's error monitoring
export function GET() {
  throw new Error("Sentry Example API Route Error");
  return NextResponse.json({ data: "Testing Sentry Error..." });
}
```

Next, update the `onClick` event in your button to call the API route and throw an error if the API response is not `ok`:

```javascript
onClick={async () => {
	await Sentry.startSpan({
	  name: 'Example Frontend Span',
	  op: 'test'
	}, async () => {
	  const res = await fetch("/api/sentry-example-api");
	  if (!res.ok) {
		throw new Error("Sentry Example Frontend Error");
	  }
	});
  }
```

> Open the page with your test button in it in your browser. For most Next.js applications, this will be at localhost.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open the page with your test button in a browser. For most Next.js applications, this will be at localhost.
```

1. Open the [**Issues**](https://sentry.io/orgredirect/organizations/:orgslug/issues) page and select an error from the issues list to view the full details and context of this error. For an interactive UI walkthrough, click [here](/product/sentry-basics/integrate-frontend/generate-first-error/#ui-walkthrough).
2. Open the [**Traces**](https://sentry.io/orgredirect/organizations/:orgslug/traces) page and select a trace to reveal more information about each span, its duration, and any errors. For an interactive UI walkthrough, click [here](/product/sentry-basics/distributed-tracing/generate-first-error/#ui-walkthrough).
3. Open the [**Replays**](https://sentry.io/orgredirect/organizations/:orgslug/replays) page and select an entry from the list to get a detailed view where you can replay the interaction and get more information to help you troubleshoot.

</Expandable>

## Next Steps

At this point, you should have integrated Sentry into your Next.js application and should already be sending error and performance data to your Sentry project.

Now's a good time to customize your setup and look into more advanced topics.
Our next recommended steps for you are:

> - Instrument Next.js server actions

Reviewer: I'm curious why the first two options here don't provide links; is this content that's in development?

Author: yes, this is content that is currently on this page, but we want to move it to other pages. This will be done before this site goes live, and then we can link properly.

Reviewer 2: @lforst wdyt about moving the server action stuff to another page (probably the new API page)?

export const onRequestError = Sentry.captureRequestError;
```

> If you need additional logic within the `onRequestError` hook, call `captureRequestError` with all arguments passed to `onRequestError`:

Reviewer 3: I would like to keep this because we have no other location where this is documented and people will be clueless what to do in case they already have an onRequestError hook for some reason.

Author: Is this also relevant for installation wizard users?

Reviewer 3: Potentially yes. However, my goal with my comment was to have this instruction ✨somewhere✨, at least so that Kapa or google can show it if people ask questions about it.

Author: @chargome will this go into the API page?

Reviewer 2: @inventarSarah we still don't know as the api page still needs more clarification – so let's keep it here for now

        recordResponse: true, // Optionally record the server action response
      },
      async () => {
        // ... Your Server Action code

        return { name: "John Doe" };
      }
    );
  }

  return (
    <form action={myServerAction}>
      <input type="text" name="some-input-value" />
      <button type="submit">Run Action</button>
    </form>
  );
}
```

## Configure Source Maps

By default, `withSentryConfig` will add a custom Webpack plugin to your configuration that runs for both server and client builds.
This means that when you run a production build (`next build`), sourcemaps will be generated and uploaded to Sentry, so that you get readable stack traces in your Sentry issues.

For the SDK to be able to upload source maps to Sentry, you need to provide an auth token.
You can pass an auth token directly via the `authToken` option:
Update `withSentryConfig` in your `next.config.js` or `next.config.mjs` file with the following additions:

```javascript {tabTitle:ESM} {filename:next.config.mjs}
export default withSentryConfig(nextConfig, {
  // Specify the organization and project to upload source maps to
  org: "___ORG_SLUG___",
  project: "___PROJECT_SLUG___",

> 

Reviewer 3: Would not remove, project is necessary, and org too with old auth tokens.

Author: added this back in

>   hideSourceMaps: true,

Reviewer 2: this is deprecated, we need to remove this option

> <Expandable level="warning" title="Are you developing with Turbopack?">

Reviewer 2: l: maybe also move this one into an `Include`, so we don't forget to update this once there are turbopack changes

> ```javascript

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```jsx
```

// A faulty API route to test Sentry's error monitoring
export function GET() {
  throw new Error("Sentry Example API Route Error");
  return NextResponse.json({ data: "Testing Sentry Error..." });
}
```

Next, update the `onClick` event in your button to call the API route and throw an error if the API response is not `ok`:

> ```javascript

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```jsx
```

Author: added the full button snippet 👍

onClick={async () => {
	await Sentry.startSpan({
	  name: 'Example Frontend Span',
	  op: 'test'
	}, async () => {
	  const res = await fetch("/api/sentry-example-api");
	  if (!res.ok) {
		throw new Error("Sentry Example Frontend Error");
	  }
	});
  }
```

Open the page with your test button in a browser. For most Next.js applications, this will be at localhost.
Clicking the button triggers two errors:

- a frontend error
- an error within the API route

Sentry captures both of these errors for you. Additionally, the button click starts a performance trace to measure the time it takes for the API request to complete.

</OnboardingOption>

### View Captured Data in Sentry

Now, head over to your project on [Sentry.io](https://sentry.io) to view the collected data (it takes a couple of moments for the data to appear).

<Alert level="warning" title="Important">

Errors triggered from within your browser's developer tools (like the browser console) are sandboxed, so they will not trigger Sentry's error monitoring.

> </Alert>

Reviewer 3: I'd probably move this into the "Verify > Issues" section

Author: moved it! 👍

<Expandable title="Need help locating the captured errors in your Sentry project?">

1. Open the [**Issues**](https://sentry.io/orgredirect/organizations/:orgslug/issues) page and select an error from the issues list to view the full details and context of this error. For an interactive UI walkthrough, click [here](/product/sentry-basics/integrate-frontend/generate-first-error/#ui-walkthrough).
2. Open the [**Traces**](https://sentry.io/orgredirect/organizations/:orgslug/traces) page and select a trace to reveal more information about each span, its duration, and any errors. For an interactive UI walkthrough, click [here](/product/sentry-basics/distributed-tracing/generate-first-error/#ui-walkthrough).

> 3. Open the [**Replays**](https://sentry.io/orgredirect/organizations/:orgslug/replays) page and select an entry from the list to get a detailed view where you can replay the interaction and get more information to help you troubleshoot.

Reviewer 3: Love this

</Expandable>

## Next Steps

At this point, you should have integrated Sentry into your Next.js application and should already be sending data to your Sentry project.

Now's a good time to customize your setup and look into more advanced topics.
Our next recommended steps for you are:

- Instrument Next.js server actions
- Configure [server-side auto-instrumentation](/platforms/javascript/guides/nextjs/configuration/build/#nextjs-specific-options)
- Learn how to [manually capture errors](/platforms/javascript/guides/nextjs/usage/)
- Continue to [customize your configuration](/platforms/javascript/guides/nextjs/configuration/)
- Learn more about our [Vercel integration](/organization/integrations/deployment/vercel/)

> <Expandable permalink={false} title="Did you experience any issues with this guide?">

Reviewer 3: I know kinda off topic but this sounds way too self-conscious

```suggestion
<Expandable permalink={false} title="Are you having problems setting up the SDK?">
```

> - If you encountered issues with our installation wizard, try [setting up Sentry manually](/platforms/javascript/guides/nextjs/manual-setup/)

Reviewer 2: I guess this does not make sense, since we're already on this page

Author: Thanks, this is now fixed!
